Here is a list of the non-middle-finger obscene hand gestures that people
have told me about. I haven't drawn them all yet.

Do you know any obscene hand gestures not described in this file? Please
email them to me at <kohler@icir.org>! Please say if you don't want your
email address included in this file.

--------

ENCOURAGEMENT

Good hunting in your quest. I have heard of instances where even Presidents
have given thumbs up or #1 hand signals on foreign visits only to be
mistaken as a flip off by the local population. A web based clearing house
of obscene hand signs of the world may prevent a future war.

Andy Miller


--------

AMERICA

This is from the old west,

Hold out your hand in an acute angle, and clench your fists.  This is a
generic fighting sign.  as in put up your dukes.  Lets fight!

Bobby

- - - -

this really isnt that offensive in today's american society considering
everyone is open to sex and teenagers are even starting to have sex at
early ages but if a male does it to a 'civilized' female it could be taken
in offense
called "the shocker"
palm towards yourself with pinky, middle, and index finger extended
its referring to mastubating a women two fingers in the vagina and one in
the anus
p.s. i can only do it with my right hand

taylor


--------

"ARAB CULTURE"

If the finger goes forward instead of up it is equally offensive in Arab
culture.  I hpe it adds to your collection of cultural offensive
behavior

<jfcannin@cbcc.bcwan.net>

- - - -

Well...there's the one that's particularly offensive to Arabs, Turks*, and
Greeks. Instead of the middle finger, the index finger is held up along
with the phrase, "Yuppa, Yuppa".

Dave Blain <djblain@hotmail.com>

*See "TURKEY" for a contradiction. -- editor


--------

BANGLADESH

related to me by a computer contractor from bangladesh
once.

a muslim thing, more like a matter of etiquette than
a gesture, but showing the sole of your shoe toward
someone is considered insulting. an example, as it
happened to me & how it came to be explained to me :)

sitting in a chair, in conversation, i crossed one leg
over my knee & the sole of my shoe was somewhat toward
him. he mentioned it very matter-of-factly, only to
mention that in his culture, it would considered
insulting. i apologized, but he was dismissive of it,
knowing that i did it only as parting of being
comfortable :)


--------

BRAZIL

In Brazil the "OK" sign is the equivalent of the middle finger.

Daniel Harris <dannyboy@subdimension.com>


--------

CENTRAL AMERICA

See "SOUTH/CENTRAL AMERICA"


--------

ENGLAND

make a victory sign (v) with palms facing yourself and back of hand
toward victim.  It means the same as the bird in England.

<pizzle@gte.net>

- - - -

I was told by a friend in England (alot of English don't even know this!)
of the origins of the peace-sign, with the back of the hand facing the
person being flipped-off. She told me that in the earlier part of the
millenium, when England and France were frequently at battle, the French
would cut-off the fingers (necessary for shooting an arrow) from the
archers, they had taken as prisoner. After this became known to the english
archers, they would flash this gesture to the French in the battle-field,
thus telling them that they still had their fingers and could still cause
some damage in battle. At the moment, I'm trying to find documentation on
this, but I saw your page and thought I might as well share the story.

<ADyken@aol.com>

- - - -

    I found your page and wanted to correct some information. 

    When archers were caught, regardless in what conflict they were
engaged, it was common-place to cut-off their plucking finger.  Notice this
is a singular finger because the bows of the day would not have required
more than one finger.  The bows used were not compound, relying on pulleys
to produce extra power; rather, a longer bow was used to increase leverage.
The Hundred Years War (1337-1453) enters into the picture when discussing a
folktale about the origins of the phrase "fuck you."  The story goes that
when English soldiers captured French archers, they removed the archers'
plucking finger--the middle one.  If a French archer was able to escape
without that punishment being completed, he would show them his finger and
exclaim a slang phrase "Plume-tu!" the next time he was enaged in battle
with them.  Apparently, the English did not hear so well and bastardized
the phrase further to its modern incantation.

    Historians more commonly believe the traditional "two-finger" gesture
seen most commonly in Europe is meant to signify a woman upside-down;
often, tongue-action is added to the gesture to assist the viewer in
understanding the sign.  The woman is implied to be one's significant
other, mother, or some other matron of the family.

- - - -

I just noticed that you're looking for rude gestures from other
cultures.  Appropriate to your current surroundings, I believe that a
"peace" symbol (I think with the back of the hand facing forward) is
rude in England.  Last time I flew over, a guy asked for two drinks,
and made that sign.  The stewardess warned him about possible
misunderstanding.

John Jannotti <jj@lcs.mit.edu>

- - - -

If you make the "V for victory" sign, such that the curled fingers
are facing towards you, (the backs of the two fingers are facing the
person) this gesture is offensive in England.

There was an article in a magazine about such gestures, but I don't
know where it is any more.  I think the "OK" symbol is offensive
in some parts of the world, actually.

Tim Park <tim@fiction.org>

- - - -

...

Oh, I've just remembered another one. The cuckold sign. With you right
hand, make the "two-fingers" sign, putting your thumb against the back of
your head. This looks a little like a pair of rabbit's ears (OK, with a
good dose of imagination). Alternatively, close both hands, and extend the
index finger of each. Apply these to the temples. (Like the geeky on in
Waynesworld when singing "Foxy Lady").

Both these two gestures are meant to represent horns. When done towards
a man, it means "Your wife (or girlfriend) is cheating on you".
This sign is widespread in England and in France (don't know about
elsewhere).

On the subject of the English "two fingers" sign, I've heard two
versions of its origin.

1. It is derived from the "Arab Nose Jerk" (though I have not tried to
establish the real existence of this gesture in Arab cultures). You
close you hand, extend first and middle fingers. Put a finger either
side of your nose, with the back of your hand towards the other person.
Now gently jerk your hand up and down, so the end of your nose twitches.
Note the resemblance with the Italian gesture.

2. My preferred story. During the Hundred Years War, between the English
and the French, the French boasted that they would win at Agincourt, and
cut off the first two fingers of the renowned English bowmen that they
were going to take prisoner. Well, the English won, and the French
prisoners were made to shuffle pas the English bowmen who taunted them
by waving their two fingers that had effectively won the battle.

Keith Rhodes <krhodes@teaser.fr>

- - - -

Subject: "Victory" V

There seems to be some misunderstanding about the meaning of different V 
signs over here in rainy ol' England.

The V with the palm facing away is a sign for peace.

The V with the palm facing towards the oneself is the rude one. This is 
also the one that comes from English bowmen. This seems to be much less 
common nowadays though, with the middle finger on it's own coming into 
greater use.

Gerard <XXX@XXX.org.uk>

- - - -

Another gesture would be the one for "Wanker", which involves (usually
the right hand) with all the fingers curved like a very, very loosely
clenched fist with the thumb and index finger tips touching.

With the hand held at an angle of 45 degrees from the vertical and the
palm facing inwards, you then oscillate the hand from the wrist in the
appropriate manner.

This may be UK specific and perhaps needed no further description apart
from the title... :-)

Ben Curry

P.S.:

> THanks for your gesture!

Pleasure, just doing my bit for a multi-cultural society.


--------

GERMANY

just wanted to tell you that people on the streets of Germany will also
recognize the gesture for what it is meant for in Russia.

...

Was that the fist with the raised middle finger? Yes this means fuck you
over here (a raised cock with balls). Same as the russian one with the
thumb between index and middle finger (more the process of fucking  - a
cock in a vagina...). Usually you also move the thumb a little up and
down in there ;-)

Cheers!

Anonymous <anonymous@anonymous.de>


--------

GREAT BRITAIN

See "ENGLAND".


--------

GREECE

Here's another one for you. I got it from "How to Hold a Crocodile"
(Diagram group). I'm quoting it from memory, and I've not read this
entry for about three years, but I think I've got it down accurately...
You should be able to find a copy in a library, in any case.

In Greece, there is a sign called "moutza", that means "go to the devil"
(although it's taken to be more offensive than this phrase in the UK).

1st degree (mildly offensive)
Fist closed, except for index and middle finger extended. Back of hand
towards self.

2nd degree
Hand open, palm towards other person.

3rd degree
Both hands open, arms extended towards other person, as if pushing him
away.

4th degree
Both hands open, arms extended towards other person (as 3rd degree).
Also, one foot extended towards other person.

5th degree (extremely offensive) (must be sitting to do this)
Both hands open, arms extended towards other person (as 3rd degree).
Both feet extended towards other person.

Keith Rhodes <krhodes@teaser.fr>

- - - -

See also Dave Blain's message under "ARAB CULTURE".


--------

IRAN

Some gestures I have found are the "thumbs-up" which is obscene in Iran. It
literally means "go screw yourself".
<Middle811@aol.com>

- - - -

In Iran, the rude gesture would be the usual american "thumb up". a
double thumb up would be even more rude.  Sometimes the gesturer would
bend his thumb finger backwards (as much as they can) when doing a
thumb-up to make it more offensive. This causes some problems (a minor
one though) between Western tourists and local population.
and thanks for publishing xwrits!
with best wishes

Masoud Sharbiani <masouds@oeone.com>


--------

ISRAEL

a rude hand gesture in israel is to point down at your upturned palm
with the forefinger of your other hand.  This means "grass will grow on
my hand" before the words of the speaker come true.

<qksilver415@aol.com>


--------

ITALY

In Italy, a reverse V sign, with knuckles facing the 
viewer, also means fuck you. A variation of this 
gesture is to insert your nose at the crotch of the V.
The "variation" is perhaps the original gesture. I
gather that the nose is supposed to be a penis and
the V a woman's private parts.
Or rather spread legs.

Name withheld by request

- - - -

In italy we have the 'umbrella gesture', which usually means 'take this
whole arm in your ass', used to enfatize happiness on someone else's
troubles, like when winning a challenge or when something bad happens to
the 'enemy'.
It is not considered really offensive, as with time it has lost it's
meaning and now it is just a 'i-am-so-happy-that-you-are-losing'
gesture.

One arm needs to be pointed out as a straight line, closed fist facing
up (the position is the same one used to show veins in the arm before
taking an injection).
The palm of the other arm slaps the juncture of the straight arm, so
that the straight arm bends till it reaches a 90' angle (or something
less than that).

This is easily explained (i hope)
The palm is the back of the poor one that gets fisted, blocking the
juncture not to let the arm enter more. This to show a complete
penetration (how romantic).

Since my explanation is really hard to understand i'll try to 'draw' the
scene (as someone over the person would see):

first:     then:

o               
|             o
|   o       /
=   |      o---.
|   |      |   |


There a very old video of an italian rebel, prisoner of war, forced to
march with the german soldiers in front of Hitler and other generals of
the nazi army, like in a parade (this was done to show to everyone the
prisoners that germany could win).
In this video the old man does the umbrella gesture to the generals,
knowing that in germany this gesture has no meaning, but really
meaningful for the other italian p.o.w.

I hope that this piece of news was interesting and useful for your list!

Tommaso Gagliardi <m_0@autistici.org>

- - - -

-- i think its italian -- 

partially close your hand, not quite curling the
fingers, then bring your fingertips upward against
your neck (knuckles face recipient), kind of popping
off the end of the chin, then holding the slightly
bent hand up at the recipient. maybe a little forward
emphasis of the hand for a little extra oomph.

if i'm remembering this correctly, an accompanying
profanity is "fongul!" (spelling?)

- - - -

See also "SHAKESPEARE".


--------

JAPAN

In Japan, inserting the thumb between the first two 
fingers, in imitation of the clitoris, means something
like fuck you.

Name withheld by request


--------

KOREA

If you're in Korea (or around Koreans), NEVER play "got your nose" with
little kids: If you make a fist and put your thumb between your index
finger and middle finger, you're essentially saying "fuck you." I've
also been told, but have not really verified that if you stick your
thumb between your middle finger and ring finger you're essentially
saying "fuck you in the ass."

Rude enough?

Ivon Katz <ivon@imagination.co.kr>


--------

POLAND


In Poland we use the same as Russia - but it's not too offensive.
The correct & polish fuck-you-gesutre takes your whole arms to do ...

Put your right forearm horizontally and close to your body.
Flex your left arm. Put your right wrist on the inside of the elbow.
Here you are.

Michal Pasternak <doc@safenet.pl>


--------

RUSSIA

in russian it is a clenched fist with the thumb going between
the first and second fingers(i think kinda like an m in sign language
altho i fergot m,n,t, its one of those....i think)

...

> hi yan,
>
> would you normally show this to someone with the back of the hand facing
> them, or the palm side?

  its with a clenched fist with the thumb facing towards the person

Yan Pritzker <skwp@thepentagon.com>


--------

SHAKESPEARE

close your hand into a fist with your thumb sticking
out over the top. place the tip of the thumb behind
your front two teeth, then pop it out at your recipient.

- - - -

I recall this gesture from Romeo and Juliet in English lessons, which means
it may well be Italian in origin. Here's a relevant quote:

> Sam. Nay, as they dare. I wil bite my Thumb at them,
>      which is a disgrace to them, if they beare it
>
> Abra. Do you bite your Thumbe at vs sir?
> Samp. I do bite my Thumbe, sir
>
> Abra. Do you bite your Thumb at vs, sir?
> Sam. Is the Law of our side, if I say I?
> Gre. No
>
> Sam. No sir, I do not bite my Thumbe at you sir: but
>      I bite my Thumbe sir

P.S. I found your GESTURES file very useful.

Tom Adams


--------

SOUTH/CENTRAL AMERICA

--Flicking someone off--the preferred way to do it in Ecuador, Colombia,
Peru, Venezuela (most of south/central america) is with the pointer and
ring fingers bent at the first knuckle, and the knuckles slightly ahead of
the finger--thus symbolizing genatalia.

--Whereas this gesture is perceived as a dismissive "nevermind" in the US,
throwing your palm-down hand towards the ground (bending your wrist) is
interpreted in latin cultures as implying that someone is homosexual--and
a sure-fire way to start a fight.

--Holding your hands, palms in and slightly down, at sternum level and
shaking them (rotationally) is similar in meaning to shaking your head,
but is also fairly dismissive and impolite.

Phillip O. Knoll <pknoll@gac.edu>


--------

SPAIN

perhaps the most typical Spanish gesture is the horns one: with the palm
facing you, index and little fingers raised while the middle ones are
held by the thumb. This means cuckold, and it's considered quite rude.

A typical joke is to put the horns on a companion's head when you're
standing for a photo, usually when he is ahead of you and looking at the
camera, so he can't notice it until he sees the photo (better don't try
this with someone you don't have familiarity enough).

Other gestures, like the middle finger one and the "umbrella"* (we call
it "sleeve cut") are widely used.

Anonymous <xxx@xxx.org>

*For "umbrella", see "ITALY" above.


--------

TURKEY

we don't make that "Yuppa, Yuppa" sound, it doesn't even have a meaning in
Turkish.. [refers to Dave Blain's message under "ARAB CULTURE" -- editor]

we don't really make any sounds other than the snapping you hear when you
lick your arm, and hold your fist with the other hand-then snap it (this
kids do, cos it's way too exaggerated)

the middle finger is a classic here too :)
another one is a fist, with the thumb stuck between the index and middle
fingers ,facing you....

Anonymous <gokce@gumur.com>


--------

UNKNOWN/UNSURE

I'm not sure which country the following gesture comes from, but my
guess is somewhere in Africa or middle-east, correct me if I'm wrong. I
heard this from a "User Interfaces" course lecturer. Ok, the gesture:
If you casually raise your hand meaning to say 'hi' with your open palm
facing another person, it means 'I throw dirt on your face'. I hear this
is a rather harsh insult. Comparable to 'fuck you' or even worse.

I recall that some version of MSWindows has this gesture as a "stop" or
"attention" sign. Wonder what they might think of it... :)

Heikki Junnila <heikki.junnila@nemo.fi>
